https://cloud.google.com/products/databases/

Database types:- 

	1. Relational
		Common Use cases: Compatibility, Transactions, Complex queries, Joins
		Examples: Cloud Spanner, Cloud SQL
	2. Non-relational/No-SQL
		Common Use cases: Time series, Streaming, Mobile, Web, IoT, Offline sync, Caching, Low latency
		Examples: Cloud Bigtable, Cloud Firestore, Firebase Realtime Database, Cloud Memorystore


Cloud SQL: Cloud SQL is a fully managed database service that makes it easy to set up, maintain, manage, and administer your relational MySQL and PostgreSQL databases in the cloud.

Cloud Spanner: Cloud Spanner is a mission-critical, scalable relational database service, built to support transactions, strong consistency, and high availability across regions and continents.

Cloud Bigtable:  NoSQL database service for use cases where low latency reads and high throughput writes, scalability, and reliability are critical.

Cloud Firestore: Cloud Firestore is a fast, fully managed, serverless, cloud-native NoSQL document database that simplifies storing, syncing, and querying data for your mobile, web, and IoT apps at global scale. Cloud Firestore is the next generation of Cloud Datastore.

Firebase Realtime Database: The Firebase Realtime Database is a cloud-hosted NoSQL database that lets you store and sync data between your users in real time.

Cloud Memorystore: Cloud Memorystore is a fully managed in-memory data store service for Redis built on scalable, more secure, and highly available infrastructure.




Cloud Spanner
------------

Spanner is Google's NewSQL database.

New SQL - NewSQL is a class of relational database management systems 
	- provide the scalability of NoSQL systems for online transaction processing (OLTP) workloads while maintaining the ACID guarantees of a traditional database system.

	OLTP - OLTP has also been used to refer to processing in which the system responds immediately to user requests, typically facilitate and manage transaction-oriented applications. The key goals of OLTP applications are availability, speed, concurrency and recoverability
	ACID properties: Atomicity(either all occur, or nothing occurs. Example: monetary transfer from bank account A to account B. It consists of two operations, withdrawing the money from account A and saving it to account B. Performing these operations in an atomic transaction ensures that the database remains in a consistent state, that is, money is neither lost nor created if either of those two operations fail.)
			 Consistency,
		         Isolation
			 Durability

Spanner is a globally distributed database service that gives developers a production-ready storage solution. 

- It provides key features such as global transactions, strongly consistent reads, and automatic multi-site replication and failover. 

- 99.999% availability SLA, no planned downtime, and enterprise-grade security
- <5 minutes per year downtime 

Cloud SQL
---------
- Cloud SQL is a fully-managed database service that makes it easy to set up, maintain, manage, and administer your relational databases on Google Cloud Platform.
- You can use Cloud SQL with either MySQL or PostgreSQL

	MySQL
	PostrreSQL

- Cloud SQL is perfect for WordPress sites, ecommerce applications, CRM tools, geospatial applications, and any other application that is compatible with MySQL, PostgreSQL, or SQL Server.

-    >99.95% availability, anywhere in the world.
- Cloud SQL delivers high performance and scalability with up to 30 TB of storage capacity, 60,000 IOPS, and 416 GB of RAM per instance.

- Cloud SQL offers per-second billing, automatic sustained-use discounts

https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-admin-ip
Select the Connections tab.
Under Authorized networks, click Add network and enter the IP address of the machine where mysql is installed. 
In Cloud SQL instance, allow external connections, add the IP/32 of the instance


SSH to instance
----------------
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mysql-client
mysql --host=34.66.173.209 --user=root --password

show databases;

create a database
-----------------
CREATE DATABASE dbname;

Use the database:
-----------------
 use demodatabase1;

create a table:
---------------
CREATE TABLE demotable1 ( id smallint unsigned not null, name varchar(20) not null, constraint pk_demotable1 primary key (id) );
INSERT INTO demotable1 ( id, name ) VALUES ( 111, 'HSBCUser1' );
INSERT INTO demotable1 ( id, name ) VALUES ( 112, 'HSBCUser2' );



SELECT name FROM demotable1 where id=111;


Using the mysql client in the Cloud Shell
------------------------------------------
    Go to the Google Cloud Platform Console.

    Go to the Google Cloud Platform Console
    Click the Cloud Shell icon towards the right in the tool bar.

    The Cloud Shell takes a few moments to initialize.
    At the Cloud Shell prompt, use the built-in mysql client to connect to your Cloud SQL instance:

    gcloud sql connect [INSTANCE_ID] --user=root

    Enter your password.












